Hello everyone and welcome to this amazing section of the course where we are going to talk about transfer
learning and fine tuning before we dig into these techniques.
Let's see what we had so far.
So far we built a decent number of neural networks and you might think those networks were too big or
too complex but in reality all networks that were built so far were amazing but not even close at the
complexity of some neural networks that we are going to work with throughout this section.
There is an image classification global competition called Image net.
And companies all around the world are making massive complex CNN architectures to win this competition
if you taught our neural networks were complex.
Let's take a look at this one the network on this slide is called Inception net.
It is made by Google specifically for the image net competition.
All of our networks were trained in a few minutes or even a few seconds.
But these kind of detectors companies are training on hundreds of deep use for many weeks.
You would think at this point that these networks are just useless for everyday tasks and those resources
are just thrown away for a competition.
But in reality the real power of these networks come with transfer learning.
Before we dig into transfer learning let's take a moment to talk about the Internet as we already discussed
the image net is the annual computer vision competition but it is the data set as well.
It has about 40 million images that are separated into one thousand classes.
The real question is this what if we could apply that knowledge gained from the image net to a totally
different custom task and still perform with the State of the art the results.
And that is exactly what the transfer learning is doing the transfer learning is a technique where we
use a pre train model from Image net to perform great on a custom task custom task can be anything.
In our case it will be dogs versus cats classification.
These base model is the pre train model on the image and the data set.
It could be in the inception and there is a mobile Net V-J 16 Vejjajiva 19 and many more.
There is a lot of pre train models that we could use in this case.
We decided for mobile Net.
This is all great.
But how to change the pre train model for the custom tasks such as binary classification between cats
and dogs.
When we defined a base model we deleted a few lost layers from it that are designed specifically for
the image and classification.
The name of that top part of the CNN is called Head.
We use the whole base model until it's head and change the head with a custom network or the custom
head for the custom task and now we have the base model with a custom head.
And the last thing that we have to do is to freeze the whole base model when performing transfer learning
our base model was trained on a data set such as image net and its weights are learned we don't touch
them anymore.
The only part of the network that is trained is the custom head part but there is one more technique
that we need to discuss and that is fine tuning fine tuning is more suited for bigger data sets.
Sometimes when the custom data set is pretty different from the image in that data set.
We need information about it in the base model as well.
In the fine tuning we still define a custom head but we don't freeze the whole base model.
We freeze only the beginning of the model and the rest of the layers are unfrozen and ready to be changed
according to the custom data set.
And for the end of this video let us these cars when to use each technique if we have a large and different
data set train the whole model.
And when we have a large and similar data set to the one that our base model was trained on use fine
tuning then in the case you have a small and different data set.
Use the fine tuning again and finally if you have small and similar data set.
Use transfer learning and that's it for now.
In the next video we will start with our transfer learning project.
If you have any questions or comments so far please post them in the comments section.
Otherwise assume the next tutorial.